README.md, before:



# Section Calendar Template Manager 


## Contributors 

|                                                                                         [Ilya Yelizarov]( https://github.com/ills5771)                                                                                          |                                                                                              [Jacob McFaul ](https://github.com/McTrip777)                                                                                               |                                                                                       [Max Trestman ](https://github.com/mtrestman1)                                                                                       |                                                                                      [Terrell Tullis ](https://github.com/t-tullis)                                                                                      |                                                                                    [Zechariah Drinkhall](https://github.com/Zechdrink)                                                                                    |
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQHtgOCU7TkAoA/profile-displayphoto-shrink_200_200/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=Id6a7vrSpjUl2gBQbXhRgZrekSfFkiCqRiyE4qPv3OE" width = "200" height />](https://github.com/ills5771) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQHiEbDzgtCMJg/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=z-rwCUKpuq48SA_5g9J-JtQskbQtHWTNMF0yVfHQgbE" width = "200" height = "auto"/>](https://github.com/McTrip777) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C4E03AQGjYw7fZIavRw/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=tYGEJS1M044M5Bb4j9vx5tA-IjLz10o3kVEtJWk_bYo" width = "200" />](https://github.com/mtrestman1) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQE4o841d4iSnA/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=Ygq2MemmSjeAjRwv6ap1eFfzu6urSS90h-eglqknFQM" width = "200" />](https://github.com/t-tullis) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQHdfwUwrF4QRg/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=EnGYx_OdKAZN6FQXL31gQcDbWoyXZMCqNRVtUk-E28U" width = "200" />](https://github.com/Zechdrink) |
|                                                                     [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ]( https://github.com/ills5771)                                                                      |                                                                          [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/McTrip777)                                                                          |                                                                  [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/mtrestman1)                                                                   |                                                                  [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/t-tullis)                                                                   |                                                                  [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/Zechdrink)                                                                   |
|                                            [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ilya-yelizarov-363425159/)                                            |                                                 [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacob-mcfaul-a96b10180/)                                                  |                                          [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/max-trestman-339215177/)                                           |                                              [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/terrelltullis/)                                              |                                      [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zechariah-drinkhall-a3575817b/)                                       |
<br>
<br>

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Naereen/StrapDown.js.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License)    [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/97d60185-6561-4760-8da7-d65bd8f824ba/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/calendr/deploys)    [![React badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-v16.8.6-blue.svg)](https://reactjs.org/)   [![moment badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/moment.js-v2.24.0-orange.svg)](https://momentjs.com/)  [![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v1.4%20adopted-ff69b4.svg)](code-of-conduct.md)




## Overview
Our product, Calendr,  allows users, to create timeline based templates and populate them with
events. The events are conveniently displayed on the user's calendar, filtered by template, for easy viewing and editing. <br>

The project can be viewed here, [https://calendr.netlify.com/](https://calendr.netlify.com/)


### Features

  * Login with OAuth 
  * Create a new calendar template
  * Update and edit template
  * Add events to the template, including name, day, time, and description
  * Update and edit events
  * Repeat event for cycle of template
  * Display events on calendar filtered by template
  * Add a group
  * Join a group
  * Mobile responsiveness
  * Payments using the Stripe API


## Frameworks and Libraries 

#### React

* Robust, popular JavaScript front-end library
* Reusable components
* Un-opinionated
* React Router great for building single page applications


#### Moment.Js

* JavaScript library removes need for native Date object
* Simplifies date and time manipulation
* Free and open-source
  

#### Reactjs-popup 
* Simple popup component
* Easy to use
* Lightweight

#### React-toastify 

* Notification library
* Easy setup and use
* Easily customizable
  

#### Node-sass

* Preprocessor providing added features to CSS
* Binds Node.js to C version of Sass
* Nesting,variables,mixins

#### Antd

* Popular React UI-Framework
* Comes with React components out of the box


#### Front end deployed to Netlify

#### [Back end](https://github.com/labs12-section-calendar-template/Backend) built with:

#### Node.js

  * JavaScript run-time environment
  * Easily scalable
  * Easy to learn
  * Write server-side applications in JavaScript
  * Large support community

#### Express.js

  * Node web application framework
  * Fast and un-opinionated
  * Large support community
  * Ships with a number of methods and middleware

#### PostgreSQL

* Free,open-source RDBMS
* Efficient and multi-functional
* Easy deployment to Heroku
* Large community


## APIs

#### Passport (google-oauth20)

* Authentication middleware for Node
* Easily integrates into an app
* Allows users to login with a Google account 
* Authenticates Google users with OAuth 2.0 tokens


#### Stripe (react-stripe-elements)

* React-stripe-elements is a plugin for Stripe
* Stripe lets our users pay for the service through our website
* User's payment information is saved as a token
* Safe method for dealing with sensitive payment details





# Installation

Installing this project involves a couple steps. First, Node.js needs to be installed on your machine. To begin, clone both the Frontend and Backend repositories from https://github.com/labs12-section-calendar-template and download them on your local machine.  In the Backend, run yarn to install the needed dependencies. Then, run yarn server from the root of the directory to start the backend server on http://localhost:3300. In the Frontend, cd into the calendr directory and run yarn. While still in the calendr directory, run yarn start. Navigate to http://localhost:3000 to view the locally deployed site.

 ## Environment Variables

To use the app properly, please set up environment variables on your end. In Front-End, an .env file is provided in the root of the directory. Please move this file inside of the calendr directory, right below src. Additionally, in the root of the Backend 
directory, create a .env file with the text below:

```
PORT=3300
NODE_ENV=development
#FRONT_END_URL=https://calendr.netlify.com
FRONT_END_URL=http://localhost:3000

```

## Backend documentation can be found here: [Backend](https://github.com/labs12-section-calendar-template/Backend)

Commit message:

adds contribution conduct link to frontend readme

README.md, after:



# Section Calendar Template Manager 


## Contributors 

|                                                                                         [Ilya Yelizarov]( https://github.com/ills5771)                                                                                          |                                                                                              [Jacob McFaul ](https://github.com/McTrip777)                                                                                               |                                                                                       [Max Trestman ](https://github.com/mtrestman1)                                                                                       |                                                                                      [Terrell Tullis ](https://github.com/t-tullis)                                                                                      |                                                                                    [Zechariah Drinkhall](https://github.com/Zechdrink)                                                                                    |
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQHtgOCU7TkAoA/profile-displayphoto-shrink_200_200/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=Id6a7vrSpjUl2gBQbXhRgZrekSfFkiCqRiyE4qPv3OE" width = "200" height />](https://github.com/ills5771) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQHiEbDzgtCMJg/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=z-rwCUKpuq48SA_5g9J-JtQskbQtHWTNMF0yVfHQgbE" width = "200" height = "auto"/>](https://github.com/McTrip777) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C4E03AQGjYw7fZIavRw/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=tYGEJS1M044M5Bb4j9vx5tA-IjLz10o3kVEtJWk_bYo" width = "200" />](https://github.com/mtrestman1) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQE4o841d4iSnA/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=Ygq2MemmSjeAjRwv6ap1eFfzu6urSS90h-eglqknFQM" width = "200" />](https://github.com/t-tullis) | [<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/C5603AQHdfwUwrF4QRg/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0?e=1564012800&v=beta&t=EnGYx_OdKAZN6FQXL31gQcDbWoyXZMCqNRVtUk-E28U" width = "200" />](https://github.com/Zechdrink) |
|                                                                     [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ]( https://github.com/ills5771)                                                                      |                                                                          [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/McTrip777)                                                                          |                                                                  [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/mtrestman1)                                                                   |                                                                  [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/t-tullis)                                                                   |                                                                  [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/Zechdrink)                                                                   |
|                                            [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ilya-yelizarov-363425159/)                                            |                                                 [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacob-mcfaul-a96b10180/)                                                  |                                          [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/max-trestman-339215177/)                                           |                                              [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/terrelltullis/)                                              |                                      [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zechariah-drinkhall-a3575817b/)                                       |
<br>
<br>

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Naereen/StrapDown.js.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License)    [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/97d60185-6561-4760-8da7-d65bd8f824ba/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/calendr/deploys)    [![React badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-v16.8.6-blue.svg)](https://reactjs.org/)   [![moment badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/moment.js-v2.24.0-orange.svg)](https://momentjs.com/)  [![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v1.4%20adopted-ff69b4.svg)](code-of-conduct.md)




## Overview
Our product, Calendr,  allows users, to create timeline based templates and populate them with
events. The events are conveniently displayed on the user's calendar, filtered by template, for easy viewing and editing. <br>

The project can be viewed here, [https://calendr.netlify.com/](https://calendr.netlify.com/)


### Features

  * Login with OAuth 
  * Create a new calendar template
  * Update and edit template
  * Add events to the template, including name, day, time, and description
  * Update and edit events
  * Repeat event for cycle of template
  * Display events on calendar filtered by template
  * Add a group
  * Join a group
  * Mobile responsiveness
  * Payments using the Stripe API


## Frameworks and Libraries 

#### React

* Robust, popular JavaScript front-end library
* Reusable components
* Un-opinionated
* React Router great for building single page applications


#### Moment.Js

* JavaScript library removes need for native Date object
* Simplifies date and time manipulation
* Free and open-source
  

#### Reactjs-popup 
* Simple popup component
* Easy to use
* Lightweight

#### React-toastify 

* Notification library
* Easy setup and use
* Easily customizable
  

#### Node-sass

* Preprocessor providing added features to CSS
* Binds Node.js to C version of Sass
* Nesting,variables,mixins

#### Antd

* Popular React UI-Framework
* Comes with React components out of the box


#### Front end deployed to Netlify

#### [Back end](https://github.com/labs12-section-calendar-template/Backend) built with:

#### Node.js

  * JavaScript run-time environment
  * Easily scalable
  * Easy to learn
  * Write server-side applications in JavaScript
  * Large support community

#### Express.js

  * Node web application framework
  * Fast and un-opinionated
  * Large support community
  * Ships with a number of methods and middleware

#### PostgreSQL

* Free,open-source RDBMS
* Efficient and multi-functional
* Easy deployment to Heroku
* Large community


## APIs

#### Passport (google-oauth20)

* Authentication middleware for Node
* Easily integrates into an app
* Allows users to login with a Google account 
* Authenticates Google users with OAuth 2.0 tokens


#### Stripe (react-stripe-elements)

* React-stripe-elements is a plugin for Stripe
* Stripe lets our users pay for the service through our website
* User's payment information is saved as a token
* Safe method for dealing with sensitive payment details





# Installation

Installing this project involves a couple steps. First, Node.js needs to be installed on your machine. To begin, clone both the Frontend and Backend repositories from https://github.com/labs12-section-calendar-template and download them on your local machine.  In the Backend, run yarn to install the needed dependencies. Then, run yarn server from the root of the directory to start the backend server on http://localhost:3300. In the Frontend, cd into the calendr directory and run yarn. While still in the calendr directory, run yarn start. Navigate to http://localhost:3000 to view the locally deployed site.

 ## Environment Variables

To use the app properly, please set up environment variables on your end. In Front-End, an .env file is provided in the root of the directory. Please move this file inside of the calendr directory, right below src. Additionally, in the root of the Backend 
directory, create a .env file with the text below:

```
PORT=3300
NODE_ENV=development
#FRONT_END_URL=https://calendr.netlify.com
FRONT_END_URL=http://localhost:3000

```

## Attribution 


 Contribution guidelines were adopted from [this good-Contributing.md-template](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426).

## Backend documentation can be found here: [Backend](https://github.com/labs12-section-calendar-template/Backend)
